src/dht22/index.md, before:

# Writing an Embedded Rust Driver for the DHT22

The DHT22, also known as AM2302, is a digital sensor used for measuring both temperature and humidity. If you're building a device that needs to detect environmental conditions like room temperature or humidity levels, this sensor is a great choice. You can easily purchase it online from stores at an affordable price. The older version is DHT11 which is slighly less accurate than DHT22.

The DHT22 uses a capacitive humidity sensor and a thermistor to measure the surrounding air. It then sends this data as a digital signal over a single data line, so you do not need any analog input pins.

<img style="display: block; margin: auto;" alt="DHT22 Sensor" src="./images/AM2302-DHT22-Digital-Temperature-and-Humidity-Sensor-Module.jpg"/>

Here are some key features of the DHT22:

- Measures humidity from 0 to 100 percent RH with 2 to 5 percent accuracy
- Measures temperature from -40 to +80 degrees Celsius with around ±0.5 degree accuracy
- Communicates over a single-wire digital protocol

In this chapter, we will learn how to write a driver for this sensor. I chose the DHT22 because it uses a simple communication method, making it suitable for learning how to write embedded Rust drivers. It is also low-cost and widely available.

> Note: While we're building our own driver from scratch for educational purposes, there are already existing crates available for the DHT22 sensor, such as dht-sensor. You can also explore those crates.

### DHT22 Sensor and Module
The DHT22 is available in two forms: the bare sensor and a ready-to-use module. The bare sensor comes in a 4-pin package, but only three of those pins are needed. The module version is typically provided with just three pins, which are the ones actually needed for operation.

One key difference is that the module includes an onboard pull-up resistor and a filtering capacitor. These help with signal stability and clean communication. The bare sensor does not include these components, so you will need to add them externally if you use the raw 4-pin sensor in your own circuit.

1. **VCC** - Connects to 3.3V or 5V
2. **Data** - Signal pin connected to a GPIO (pull-up resistor is already present on the board)
3. **GND** - Ground

Commit message:

using dht22-sensor driver crate with esp32

src/dht22/index.md, after:

# Writing an Embedded Rust Driver for the DHT22

The DHT22, also known as AM2302, is a digital sensor used for measuring both temperature and humidity. If you're building a device that needs to detect environmental conditions like room temperature or humidity levels, this sensor is a great choice. You can easily purchase it online from stores at an affordable price. The older version is DHT11 which is slighly less accurate than DHT22.

The DHT22 uses a capacitive humidity sensor and a thermistor to measure the surrounding air. It then sends this data as a digital signal over a single data line, so you do not need any analog input pins.

<img style="display: block; margin: auto;" alt="DHT22 Sensor" src="./images/AM2302-DHT22-Digital-Temperature-and-Humidity-Sensor-Module.jpg"/>

Here are some key features of the DHT22:

- Measures humidity from 0 to 100 percent RH with 2 to 5 percent accuracy
- Measures temperature from -40 to +80 degrees Celsius with around ±0.5 degree accuracy
- Communicates over a single-wire digital protocol

In this chapter, we will learn how to write a driver for this sensor. I chose the DHT22 because it uses a simple communication method, making it suitable for learning how to write embedded Rust drivers. It is also low-cost and widely available.

> Note: While we're building our own driver from scratch for educational purposes, there are already existing crates available for the DHT22 sensor, such as dht-sensor. You can also explore those crates.

### DHT22 Sensor and Module
The DHT22 is available in two forms: the bare sensor and a ready-to-use module. The bare sensor comes in a 4-pin package, but only three of those pins are needed. The module version is typically provided with just three pins, which are the ones actually needed for operation.

1. **VCC** - Connects to 3.3V or 5V
2. **Data** - Signal pin connected to a GPIO (pull-up resistor is already present on the board)
3. **GND** - Ground

One important difference between the DHT22 module and the bare sensor is the presence of an onboard pull-up resistor. On the module, this resistor is already connected between the data line and VCC, ensuring that the line reliably returns to a HIGH state when neither the microcontroller nor the sensor is actively pulling it LOW. This is essential for correct timing and stable communication.

If you're using the raw 4-pin DHT22 sensor (without a breakout board), it does not include a pull-up resistor. In that case, you'll need to add an external resistor (typically 10kΩ) between the data pin and VCC to ensure proper operation.
